---
layout: docs
title: Documentation
permalink: /docs/
---

### Contents

* [Usage](#usage)
* [JSHint as a JavaScript library](#jslib)
* [Configuring JSHint from within JavaScript files](#config)
* [JSHint options](#options)
* [Still confused?](#confused)

<h3 id="usage">Usage</h3>

The easiest way to use JSHint is to install it as a Node program. To do so,
simply run the following command in your terminal (flag -g installs JSHint
globally on your system, omit it if you want to install JSHint in the current
working directory):

    $ npm install jshint -g
    
After you've done that you should be able to use the `jshint` program. The
simplest use case would be linting a single file or all JavaScript files in
a directory:

    $ jshint myfile.js
    myfile.js: line 10, col 39, Octal literals are not allowed in strict mode.
    
    1 error

JSHint comes with a default set of warnings but it was designed to be very
configurable. There are two main ways to configure your copy of JSHint before:
you can either specify the configuration file manually via the `--config` flag
or use a special file `.jshintrc`. JSHint will look for this file in the current
working directory and, if not found, will move one level up the directory tree
all the way up to the filesystem root.

This setup allows you to have different configuration files per project. Place
your file into the project root directory and, as long as you run JSHint from
anywhere within your project directory tree, the same configuration file will
be used.

Configuration file is a simple JSON file that specifies which JSHint options
to turn on or off. For example, the following file will enable warnings about
undefined and unused variables and tell JSHint about a global variable named
`MY_GLOBAL`.

    {
      "undef": true,
      "unused": true,
      "globals": { "MY_GLOBAL": false }
    }

Other configuration flags supported by JSHint:

* **`--reporter`**
  Allows you to modify JSHint's output by replacing its default output function
  with your own implementation.

      $ jshint --reporter=myreporter.js myfile.js
  
  This flag also supports two pre-defined reporters: *jslint*, to make output
  compatible with JSLint, and *checkstyle*, to make output compatible with
  CheckStyle XML.

      $ jshint --reporter=checkstyle myfile.js
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
      <checkstyle version="4.3">
      	<file name="myfile.js">
          <error line="10" column="39" severity="error"
            message="Octal literals are not allowed in strict mode."/>
        </file>
      </checkstyle>
      
  See also: [Writing your own JSHint reporter](/docs/reporter/).

* **`--verbose`**
  Adds message codes to the JSHint output.

* **`--show-non-errors`**
  Shows additional data generated by JSHint.

      $ jshint --show-non-errors myfile.js
      myfile.js: line 10, col 39, Octal literals are not allowed in strict mode.
    
      1 error
      
      myfile.js:
        Unused variables:
          foo, bar

* **`--extra-ext`**
  Allows you to specify additional file extensions to check (default is .js).

* **`--help`**
  Shows a nice little help message similar to what you're reading right now.

* **`--version`**
  Shows the installed version of JSHint.
  
#### Rhino

JSHint also has a Rhino build which you can download [here](/install/).

    $ rhino jshint-rhino.js myfile.js
    
Note that Rhino version doesn't support flags described above. It is, actually,
pretty basic.

#### Ignoring files

If you want JSHint to skip some files you can list them in a file named
`.jshintignore`. For example:

    legacy.js
    somelib/**
    otherlib/*.js

#### Hooking up into the file resolution logic

The CLI JSHint module exposes a public method `gather` that you can use
to hook up into the file resolution logic. This is useful if you want to
change how JSHint gathers files for linting. Do this only if you really
know what you're doing.

    #!/usr/bin/env node

    var cli = require("./src/cli/cli.js");

    cli.gather = function (opts) {
      // Your own file gathering logic.
      // For description of 'opts' see src/cli/cli.js:gather
    };

    cli.interpret(process.argv);

<h3 id="jslib">JSHint as a JavaScript library</h3>

You can also use JSHint in your projects as a JavaScript library. You can either
install it as a Node module and include with `require` or [download our web
bundle](/install/) which exposes a global `JSHINT` function.

    // With Node
    var JSHINT = require("jshint").JSHINT;
    
`JSHINT` is a function that takes three formal parameters and returns a boolean:

    var success = JSHINT(source, options, globals);
    
The first parameter is either a string or an array of strings. If it is a
string, it will be split on '\n' or '\r'. If it is an array of strings, it is
assumed that each string represents one line. The source can be JavaScript or
JSON.

The second parameter is an optional object of options which control the
operation of JSHINT. Most of the options are booleans: They are all optional and
have a default value of false.

The third parameter is an object of global variables, with keys as names and a
boolean value to determine if they are assignable.

If your input passes JSHint tests, the function will return `true`. Otherwise,
it will return `false`. In that case, you can use `JSHINT.errors` to retrieve
the errors or request a complete report by calling the `JSHINT.data()` method.

<h3 id="config">Configuring JSHint from within JavaScript files</h3>

In addition to the `--config` flag and `.jshintrc` file you can configure JSHint
from within your files using special comments. These comments start either
with `jshint` or `global` and are followed by a comma-separated list of value.
For example, the following snippet will enable warnings about undefined and
unused variables and tell JSHint about a global variable named `MY_GLOBAL`.

    /* jshint undef: true, unused: true */
    /* global MY_GLOBAL */
    
You can use both multi- and single-line comments to configure JSHint. These
comments are function scoped meaning that if you put them inside a function they
will affect only this function's code.

#### Directives

{% include directives.html %}

<h3 id="options">JSHint options</h3>

Most often, when you need to tune JSHint to your own taste, all you need to do
is to find an appropriate option. Trying to figure out how JSHint options work
can be confusing and frustrating (and we're working on fixing that!) so please
read the following couple of paragraphs carefully.

JSHint has two types of options: enforcing and relaxing. The former are used to
make JSHint more strict while the latter are used to suppress some warnings.
Take the following code as an example:

    function main(a, b) {
      return a == null;
    }
    
This code will produce the following warning when run with default JSHint
options:

    line 2, col 14, Use '===' to compare with 'null'.
    
Let's say that you know what you're doing and want to disable the produced
warning but, in the same time, you're curious whether you have any variables
that were defined but never used. What you need to do, in this case, is to
enable two options: one relaxing that will suppress the `=== null` warning and
one enforcing that will enable checks for unused variables. In your case these
options are `unused` and `eqnull`.

    /*jshint unused:true, eqnull:true */
    function main(a, b) {
      return a == null;
    }
    
After that, JSHint will produce the following warning while linting this example
code:

    demo.js: line 2, col 14, 'main' is defined but never used.
    demo.js: line 2, col 19, 'b' is defined but never used.
    
Sometimes JSHint doesn't have an appropriate option that disables some
particular warning. In this case you can use `jshint` directive to disable
warnings by their code. Let's say that you have a file that was created by
combining multiple different files into one:

    "use strict";    
    /* ... */
    
    // From another file
    function b() {
      "use strict";
      /* ... */
    }

This code will trigger a warning about an unnecessary directive in function `b`.
JSHint sees that there's already a global "use strict" directive and informs you
that all other directives are redundant. But you don't want to strip out these
directives since the file was auto-generated. The solution is to run JSHint
with a flag `--verbose` and note the warning code (W034 in this case):

    $ jshint --verbose myfile.js
    myfile.js: line 6, col 3, Unnecessary directive "use strict". (W034)

Then, to hide this warning, just add the following snippet to your file:

    /* jshint -W034 */

A couple things to note:

1. This syntax works only with warnings (code starts with `W`), it doesn't work
with errors (code starts with `E`).
2. This syntax will disable all warnings with this code. Some warnings are more
generic than others so be cautious. 

To re-enable a warning that has been disabled with the above snippet you can
use:

    /* jshint +W034 */

This is especially useful when you have code which causes a warning but that
you know is safe in the context. In these cases you can disable the warning as
above and then re-enable the warning afterwards:

    var y = Object.create(null);
    // ...
    /*jshint -W089 */
    for (var prop in y) {
        // ...
    }
    /*jshint +W089 */

#### Enforcing options

{% include enforcers.html %}

#### Relaxing options

{% include relaxers.html %}

#### Environments

These options pre-define global variables that are exposed by popular JavaScript
libraries and runtime environments—such as browser or Node. Essentially they are
shortcuts for explicit declarations like `/*global $:false, jQuery:false */`.

{% include environments.html %}

#### Legacy

These options are legacy from JSLint. Aside from bug fixes they will not be
improved in any way and might be removed at any point.

{% include legacy.html %}

<h3 id="confused">Still confused?</h3>

If you have any further questions about JSHint, feel free to send them to
our [mailing list](http://groups.google.com/group/jshint/).
